# raw data
Starting from the last tab in the spreadsheet, this tab is where I keep track of each matchup and which sprite wins and loses in columns D and E respectively. Columns B and C are concatenations of the matchups which get used in other tabs to calculate win/loss rates and percentages. There are also two hidden tabs which aren't relevant to this analysis anymore. Column H is getting a unique list of sprites that won, and another unique list of sprites that lost. Column A is then getting a unique list of these 2 lists so there are no duplicates, resulting in a list of every sprite possible. The reason these tabs are hidden and irrelevant is because they were important during the earlier stages of setting this file up as I didn't want to manually type in every sprite and let Excel update this automatically. Every sprite has encountered at least one matchup at this point so those lists no longer get populated.

# win/lose rates
This tab analyzes the overall win and lose rates for each sprite. The sprites are pulled in from column A in the raw data tab and sorted alphabetically. Columns D and E are the win/lose counts and take the total number of times they appear in the 'Win' and 'Lose' columns respectively in the raw data tab. Columns B and C then take those counts and divide them by the total number of times they had a matchup (summing both the win and lose counts).

# matchups
The win/lose rates tab showed the overall rates each sprite had, but this tab shows the win rates each sprite has against another sprite. This is where the concatenations from the raw data tab come into play. Rather than taking the count of wins or losses each sprite has like the win/lose rates tab does, these calculations are based on the cancatenation of the row labels with the column labels. They count the number of times that concatenation shows up in the 'Win/Lose' column in the raw data tab and then divides that by the total number of times that matchup occured (the 'Win/Lose' and 'Lose/Win' columns in the raw data tab). For example, cell C11 is boom boom's win rate against 1-up mushroom (100%).

# top ranks
This tab takes the data from the win/lose rates tab and sorts it to give each sprite a rank. The sort is prioritized by the 'Win Rate' column, any amounts that are equal are then sorted by 'Wins' and then finally is sorted by 'Losses' in descending order. This places sprites that have shown up more times and won in higher positions while sprites that have shown up more but lost lower positions. As the rates change, columns A to E will update automatically while column F will remain unchanged to give new ranks to each sprite.

# inputs
This tab is where I can quickly check the win rates for the two sprites that were chosen for each bet by pulling the win rate against the other sprite from the matchups tab, the overall win rate from the win/lose rates tab, and the ranking from the top ranks tab. This tab is useful because as bets are placed, everyone is able to see what percentage of people have bet on each sprite in real time. So even though piranha plant's overall win rate is 50% and pow block's win rate is 78%, I may want to place my bet on piranha plant if there are good odds on the bet for piranha plant.  
